1 The Reason Why	
How is your soul today?
Suppose that a young man sent his fiancée a diamond ring
costing $10,000, placing it in a little case which the jeweller
threw in for nothing. How disappointed he would be, if upon
meeting her a few days later, she says, "Sweetheart, that was a
lovely little box you sent me. To take special care of it, I promise
to keep it in a safe place so that no harm shall come to it."
Rather ridiculous, isn't it? Yet it is just as foolish for men and
women to be spending all their time and thought on their
bodies, which are only cases containing the real self, the soul,
which, the Bible tells us, will persist long after our bodies have
crumbled to dust. The soul is of infinite value. Longfellow
expressed it this way:
4
<i>Tell me not in mournful numbers,</i>
<i>Life is but an empty dream,</i>
<i>For the soul is dead that slumbers</i>
<i>And things are not what they seem.</i>
<i>Life is real, life is earnest,</i>
<i>And the grave is not its goal.</i>
<i>Dust thou art, to dust returnest,</i>
<i>Was not spoken of the soul.</i>
Hear what Jesus said of the soul: "What shall it profit a man,
if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" In
Christ's estimate, man's soul is something incomparably more
valuable than the whole world. Ponder this thought.
There is more, far more, to life than meets the eye: there is life
beyond life, life which transcends death. That life is not to be
found in this world. It is in God, and to Him we must go.
Thought: Life is more than a good home and three square meals a day.
Prayer: Lord, help me not to neglect my "diamond" in its "box."
5
2 Some Basic Questions	
A fully comprehended God is no God
I would like to discuss with you some of the basic things that
relate to your most valuable possession, your soul. For instance:
Is there a God?
Is the Bible true?
Is man accountable?
Is there divine forgiveness?
These are some of the problems which perplex those who think
seriously about the future. How may I know there is a God?
I have an innate conviction that God exists. No matter how my
intellect has tried in the past to produce reasons proving He does
not, or however much I have wanted to believe that there was
no God, that "still small voice" came to me again and again, just
as it has come to you in the quiet of life's more sober moments.
Yes, I knew that at least for me, there was a God. And as I looked
at others, I realized how many were looking for God, seeking in
"religion" to silence the same voice that spoke within me.
6
True, there are some men who don't believe in God. But to me,
the problems of unbelief in god are greater than the problems
of belief. To believe that unaided dead matter produced mind,
that mind produced conscience, and that the chaos of chance
produced the cosmos of order as we see it in nature, seems to
call not for faith but for credulity.
No true son demands that his father prove himself. Neither does
his father see the need to, for he has revealed himself by many
irrefutable and loving proofs. So it is with God. Therefore, in
the Bible, there is not one word that seeks to explain God. The
evidence of God is everywhere: only the blind will not see.
Thought: "The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God" (Psalm 14:1)
Prayer: Open Thou mine eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of
Thy law.
7
3 Proving God	
God is not for explanation but for proclamation
The president of the New York Scientific Society once gave 8
reasons why he believed there was a God. The first was this:
Take 10 identical coins and mark them 1 to 10. Place them in
your pocket. Now take one out. There is 1 chance in 10 that
you will get number 1. Now replace it, and the chances that
number 2 will follow number 1 are not 1 in 10, but 1 in 100.
With each new coin taken out, the risk will be multiplied by 10,
so that the chance of 10 following 9, is 1 in 10,000,000,000 (ten
billion). It seemed so unbelievable to me that I immediately
took pencil and paper and very quickly discovered he was
right. Try it yourself!
That is why George Gallup, the American statistician, says: "I
could prove God statistically. Take the human body alone - the
chance that all its functions would just happen is a statistical
monstrosity."
Surely no thoughtful persons would wish to base their eternal
future on a "statistical monstrosity". Perhaps that is why the
8
Bible says in Psalm 14:1 "The fool hath said in his heart, there
is no God."
Men may resort to computers and complicated statistics,
trying to prove God. But that is quite unnecessary. A little
reflection in humility will convince us of the Creator. Then
we will say with the Psalmist: "O Lord, thou hast searched
me, and known me… whither shall I go from thy Spirit? Or
whither shall I flee from thy presence?"
The fact of God is everywhere embraced by men of tender heart.
His love and goodness reaches to all. Only the ungrateful deny
it. Do not try to prove God! Only proclaim His saving name
everywhere!
Thought: God is His own best evidence.
Prayer: "Search me, O God, and know my heart."
9
4 The First Cause	
God is the Cause of all causes
Suppose we are standing at an airport watching a big jet come
in for a landing. I say to you, "A lot of people think that plane
is the result of someone's carefully designed plans, but I know
better. There was really no intelligence at work on it at all. In
some strange way the metal just came out of the ground, and
fashioned itself into flat sheets. And then these metal sheets
slowly began to grow together and formed the body and wings
and tail. Then after a long while the engines slowly grew in
place, and one day some people came along and discovered
the plane, all finished and ready to fly."
You would probably consider me a lunatic and move farther
into the crowd to escape my senseless chatter. Why? You
know that where there is a design there must be a designer,
and having seen other productions of the human mind just
like the plane in question, you are positive that it was planned
by human intelligence and built by human skill.
Yet there are highly-educated, professional men who tell us
10
that the entire universe came into being by chance, that there
was really no higher intelligence at work in it. They claim to
know no God but nature.
On the other hand there are many thoughtful men who believe
that God is transcendent: that is, while He reveals Himself
in nature (in that its laws and principles are expressions
of His power and wisdom), He Himself is greater than the
universe. But all that atheists can offer us is the riddle of
design without a designer, of creation without a Creator, of
effect without Cause.
Every thinking person believes in a series of causes and effects
in nature, each effect becoming the cause of some other effect.
The acceptance of this as fact logically compels one to admit
that there must be a beginning to any series. There could never
have been a first effect if there had not been a First Cause. This
First Cause to me is Deity.
Thought: "In the beginning God..." (Genesis 1:1)
Prayer: Give me eyes of faith, O God, to see You as the Cause of all causes.
11
5 Believing Is Seeing!	
By faith we see the invisible
Although man has discovered many of the laws that govern
electricity, even the greatest scientists cannot really define
it. Then why do we believe it exists? Because we see the
manifestations of its existence in our homes and industries
and streets. Though I do not know where God came from, I
believe He exists, because I see the manifestations of Him
everywhere around me.
Dr Wernher von Braun, director of NASA research, and
developer of the rocket which put America's first space satellite
into orbit, says, "In our modern world, many people seem
to feel that our rapid advances in the field of science render
such things as religious belief untimely or old-fashioned. They
wonder why we should be satisfied in ‘believing' something
when science tells us that we ‘know' so many things. The simple
answer to this contention is that we are confronted with many
more mysteries of nature today than when the age of scientific
enlightenment began. With every new answer unfolded, science
had consistently discovered at least 3 new questions.
12
The answers indicate that everything as well ordered and
perfectly created as are our earth and universe must have a
Maker, a Master Designer. Anything so orderly, so perfect, so
precisely balanced, so majestic as this creation can only be the
product of a Divine idea...."
The late professor Edwin Conklin, a noted biologist, very
aptly said, "The probability of life originating from accident
is comparable to the probability of Chamber's Dictionary
resulting from an explosion in a printing shop."
God's Word says: "Through faith we understand that the worlds
were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen
were not made of things which do appear" (Hebrews 11:3).
Thought: The heavens declare the glory of God!
Prayer: Give me a heart of faith, O God, to believe Your Word.
13
6 The Revelation of God	
When God speaks, we must listen
God exists whether or not men choose to believe in Him.
The reason why many people do not believe in God is not so
much that it is intellectually impossible to believe in God, but
because belief in God forces the thoughtful person to face the
fact that he is accountable to such a God. Many people are
unwilling to do this. Most of those who take refuge in atheism
or agnosticism do so because it is a convenient escape from
the stern reality that man is accountable to his Creator. It is
usually not so much a case of "I cannot believe" as it is a case
of "I do not want to believe."
I know only two ways by which God's purpose and God's
person may be known. First there is the process of reason. As a
good detective can, for example, tell you many things about my
skills, habits and character just by examining something I may
have made or handled, so much can be learned about God by a
careful examination of the universe, the work of His hands.
But the detective who examines only what I make can never
14
say that he knows me. He may know some things about me,
but before he can say that he knows me, there must be a
process of revelation: I must communicate with him. I must
tell him what I think, how I feel and what I want to do. This
self-revelation may be in conversation, in writing, or in some
other way. Only then does it become possible for him to know
me. Just so, if God is ever to be known and His thoughts,
desires and purposes perceived, He must take the initiative
and make at least a partial revelation of Himself to men.
We recall again the famous words of Zophar to Job. "Canst thou
by searching find out God? Canst thou find out the Almighty
unto perfection? It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do?
Deeper than hell; what canst thou know?" (Job 11:7-8). But we
thank God, He has revealed Himself.
Thought: How well do you know God? And, does He know you?
Prayer: Help me, O God, to know You as revealed in Your Word.
15
7 The Book of Books	
"All you need to know for salvation is the Bible"
Of all the many books this world contains, there is only one
that claims to be a direct revelation from God, telling us of
Himself and His purpose for us. That book is the Bible. The
Bible is a book of such importance that it is surely worthy of
thoughtful investigation. So, with the advice of Francis Bacon
neither to accept nor reject, but to weigh and consider, let us
approach this book with its unusual claims.
To be fair to ourselves and to the Bible, we should read it
through. As a judge must not make his decision when the
case is half heard, neither must we. Rather, like the judge, we
should compare the evidence of the witnesses, and weigh and
consider every work, seeking its deepest significance rather
than accepting its surface meaning. Surely, the importance of
the Bible's claims justifies spending the necessary time on the
study of its 66 books written by at least 40 different writers
(some well-educated, some barely educated, some kings, some
peasants) over a period of 1600 years in places as far apart as
Babylon in Asia and Rome in Europe. With such authorship,
16
one would expect to find a miscellaneous collection of
contradictory statements. Its unity is therefore especially
striking, for each contribution is the complement of the others.
In my consideration of this whole matter, the truth of 2
Peter 1:21 slowly became certain to me. There was no other
reasonable explanation. "Holy men of God spake as they were
moved by the Holy Ghost." This belief was confirmed as I
read prophecy after prophecy in the Old Testament, which
found their fulfilment, down to the letter, hundreds of years
later. For instance, Isaiah 53 foretold the death of Christ with
minute accuracy 700 years before His crucifixion! Yes, the
difficulties in the way of doubting the Book seemed to me
greater than those in the way of believing it. The problems
were all on the side of unbelief!
Thought: Can you say, "I Believe the Bible to be the Word of God, inspired,
inerrant, and infallible"?
Prayer: Help me to treasure the Bible as Your Word, O God.
17
8 God's Standard	
"Be holy as I am holy"
Accepting the Bible brought me face to face with a serious
difficulty, however, for the Bible set a standard of righteousness
I had not attained. It pronounced that anything short of its
standard was sin. Remembering that God knows your every
secret thought, just measure yourself alongside the standard:
"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with
all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and greatest
commandment." (Matthew 22:37,38)
Confronted with such a statement, can you claim to have
lived up to it throughout your life? Have you put God first
in everything? No man can honestly claim such perfection.
Every honest heart echoes Romans 3:10 and 3:23: "There is
none righteous, no, not one… All have sinned and come short
of the glory of God." All have failed to reach God's standard.
A young man once asked me, "Do you think it is fair of God
to set the standard of holiness so high that we cannot reach it,
and then judge us for falling short?"
18
I replied, "God has not set an arbitrary standard of holiness
as an official sets an arbitrary standard of height for his
bodyguards. In such a case, a man may have all the other
qualifications, but if he is an inch too short he is disqualified.
God has not really set a standard at all: He is the standard.
He is absolute holiness, and to preserve His own character He
must remain absolutely holy in all of His dealings with man,
maintaining that standard irrespective of the tremendous
implications which it may hold for both Him and us."
We see, then, that God has not only revealed His absolute
holiness, but He has also shown us our miserable lost condition,
and our utter need of His salvation.
Question: How can we be holy as He is holy?
Prayer: Create in me a clean heart, O God.
19
9 All Have Sinned	
Sin is simply rebellion against God
My conscience and my common sense compelled me to admit
that I had fallen short of God's standard of absolute holiness
and, therefore, I was a sinner in His sight.
On my admission of having sinned came God's condemnation
in Ezekiel 18:4: "The soul that sinneth, it shall die."
It appealed to me like this: the law in Great Britain says that
all drivers must keep to the left side of the street. In New York
the rule of the road demands that a driver keeps to the right
side. Now, suppose I go driving in London and keep to the
right side. On being brought before the judge, I say, "This is
ridiculous, in the United States, we are allowed to drive on
the right side."
"You are not being judged by the laws of America," he replies.
"It does not matter what the laws of other lands may be, you
should have concerned yourself only with the laws which
judge you here, where you are."
20
In the same way, as far as God's standard was concerned, I
was lost, because God's standard was the only one by which
I was to be judged in eternity. I was hopelessly lost. I began
to see that it didn't matter at all what I thought or what my
friends told me. The judgement would be based on what
God has said, not what my friends say. Moreover, because
in God's judgement we have all sinned, there was no use in
looking to other men for help, for they were under the same
condemnation as I.
Thank God for revealing to us His holy law and its just
demands. The law shows me my true condition, "for by the
law is the knowledge of sin" (Romans 3:20). The law awakens
us to our need and points us to the Saviour who alone has
redeemed us from the curse of the law (Galatians 3:13,24).
Thought: "For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin; that
we might be made the righteousness of God in him" (2 Corinthians 5:21)
Prayer: I have sinned against You, O God. Be merciful to me.
21
10 Jesus Christ: Son of God?	
Jesus Christ - the express image of God
The same Bible, which told me of my sin, told me also of Jesus
Christ, who claimed to be the Son of God.
If Jesus Christ is the Son of God, then we may indeed be
sure of salvation; but the difficulty faces us: Is Jesus Christ
really the Son of God? He could only be one of three - the
Son of God, or a deceiver, or an honest man Himself under a
hallucination. But we find Him meeting some of the cleverest
men of His day, who were purposely sent to catch Him in
His words, and He so silenced them that they did not dare
ask Him any more questions (Matthew 22:46). And when we
ourselves consider the wisdom of His statements from an
intellectual standpoint, we see plainly that He was under no
hallucination as to Himself. Was His wisdom so great that He
was using it to deceive the people?
Have you ever heard of a young man associating with
swindlers and rogues and because of that association,
becoming ennobled, pure and honest? No! You admit you
22
have not heard of such a case; but I know a young man who
by the reception of Christ into his life has been lifted from the
basest desires to the noblest manhood. I simply cannot believe
that the reception of a deceiver into one's life could transform
it for the good.
The other day I heard a man say, "I owe it to Jesus Christ that
I can walk down the street with my head held erect and my
shoulders squared to the world. I owe it to Him that I can look a
pure woman in the face and grip an honest man by the hand."
Words not backed with works are empty. Jesus claimed to be the
Son of God. He backed that claim by working the miraculous
works of God. To the unbelieving Jews, He appealed: "…
though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know,
and believe, that the Father is in me and I in him" (John 10:38).
Thought: The greatest of all of Jesus' miracles is His own resurrection.
Prayer: Thank You, Lord, for sending your Son Jesus Christ to die for me.
23
11 In Christ A New Creation	
"Behold, I make all things new"
I call to witness the opinion of the whole civilised world that
Jesus Christ was at least a good man. If so, then an honest man,
and if honest, He must have been what He claimed to be, the
Son of God, sent to lay down His sinless life in place of your
sinful life and mine.
Leaders from several professions have this to say about Jesus
Christ:
United States Senator Mark O Hatfield testified, "I saw that
for 31 years I had lived for self and decided I wanted to live
the rest of my life only for Jesus Christ. I asked God to forgive
my self-centred life and to make my life His own. Following
Jesus Christ has been an experience of increasing challenge,
adventure and happiness. Living a committed Christian life
is truly satisfying because it has given me true purpose and
direction by my serving not myself but Jesus Christ."
Robert E. (Bob) Richards, former Olympic track star, said, "My
24
only reason for being in sports is to give my testimony to the
youth of all the world that Jesus Christ can save from sin, and
that one can be a Christian and still excel in good, creative
things. Young people need to realize that God unleashed
a tremendous spiritual power when Jesus Christ died on
Calvary."
Lt Gen (Ret) William K. Harrison (Ret.), former Senior Delegate
of the United Nations Command Truce Team in Korea, and
later Commander-in-Chief of the Caribbean Command,
wrote, "It is wonderful to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and
I am exceedingly thankful that God has graciously led me to
saving faith in Christ. God gives us who believe in Christ a
daily, personal experience which is convincing evidence of
the reality of the new life in Christ."
Thought: If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. It is not just
"turning over a new leaf, but a new man."
Prayer: Thank You, Lord, for giving me a new life.
25
12 Sincerity Is Not Enough	
We are not saved by sincerity, but we may be lost without it
I do not ask you to accept Him as yours, for you may have an
objection: although it is plausible that the Bible is true, are not
alternative views also plausible? Why not be reasonable and
submit them to a fair test as well?
On telling my conviction to a friend, he replied, "You are
all right, but so am I, although I don't see things as you do.
It seems to me that it doesn't matter so much what a man
believes, so long as he is sincere in his belief."
Let us test that statement. One fine Sunday morning a neighbour of
mine said to his wife and family, "Let us take the car and
go for a picnic." Travelling north, he came to a railway crossing
and, sincerely believing that there would be no trains on a Sunday
morning, attempted to drive across. He was killed on the
spot, one son had an arm broken and his little daughter was in a
cast for months. Did his sincere belief save him? No, it did not. I
know a nurse who, on night duty, sincerely believed she held
the right medicine in her hand, but she was wrong, and in
26
20 minutes her patient was dead in spite of frantic efforts to
save him.
Of course we need sincerity, but we must sincerely believe
truth, not error. In fact, having sincere belief in error can be
the very means of deceiving and finally destroying us.
The words of the wise king have a pertinent message for us:
"There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end
thereof are the ways of death." (Proverbs 14:12) His conviction,
though sincere, nevertheless led to his downfall.
Thought: "Jesus says, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall
make you free… I am the way, the truth, and the life" (John 8:32; 14:6)
Prayer: Open my eyes that I may see Your truth, O God.
27
13 Many Ways to God?	
Only one God, only one Son, only one Way
The Bible leaves no room for doubt. In John 14:6 Christ says,
"I am the way, the truth and the life: no man cometh unto the
Father but by Me." Acts 4:12 states: "There is none other name
under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved."
If you can get to heaven any other way you will be witness
throughout eternity to the fact that Jesus Christ spoke falsely
when he said there was no other way. But since He gives full
evidence of being the Son of God, is it not folly to attempt
coming to God by any other way than through Christ Himself,
who claims to be God's appointed way?
The real reason we want some other way is because the way of
the cross is a humbling way, and we are proud at heart. But
let us remember the way of the cross was a humbling way for
Christ also, as we read in Philippians 2:5-8:
"Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus: Who,
being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal
with God: But made himself of no reputation, and took upon
28
him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of
men: And being found in fashion as a man, He humbled
himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of
the cross."
All the arguments over the ‘many ways to God' will not be
necessary if it is accepted that Jesus is God, which Scripture
affirms over and over. Jesus said, "He that hath seen me hath
seen the Father… I am in the Father, and the Father in me...."
(John 14:0-10)
"For there is one God, and one mediator between God and
men, the man Christ Jesus" (1 Timothy 2:5)
Thought: Coming to Jesus is coming to God the Father.
Prayer: Thank You, Father, that I can come to You through Jesus Christ,
Your Son.
29
14 We Have a Debt to Pay	
We cannot pay with what we do not have
Some people have suggested that all a person needs to do is
sincerely reform, do better in the future, and thus live down
past shortcomings. This is supposed to make one fit for heaven.
Will this work?
Let us assume that the manager of a business goes to his
accountant and finds that his company owed $50,000 to the
manufacturers and other merchants. He says, "Write letters to
all those people and tell them that we are not going to worry
about the past, that we have turned a new page in our ledger,
but we promise to pay 100 cents on the dollar in all future
business, and from now on to live up to the highest standard
of business integrity."
The accountant would think his employer had gone mad,
and would refuse to put such a proposition to the creditors.
Yet thousands of otherwise sensible people are trying to
get to heaven by just such a proposal, offering to meet their
obligations towards God for the future, but refusing to worry
30
about the past at all. Yet in Ecclesiastes 3:15, we read, "God
requireth that which is past". Even if we assume that we can
somehow begin to live an absolutely perfect life - which is
certainly impossible - we are still sinners.
It is said that Jesus came to pay a debt He did not owe for
us who owed a debt we could not pay. God's Word declares,
"The soul that sinneth, it shall die." "But God commendeth
His love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ
died for us" (Romans 5:8). In His death, He laid down His
divine, sinless life in our stead, settling once and for all, the
debt we owe.
Thought: Jesus calls - "Look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the
earth; for I am God, and there is none else."
Prayer: Thank You, Jesus, for dying for me, that my sins may be forgiven.
31
15 Jesus Paid It All	
We have redemption through His blood
God's righteousness demands that no past account be
considered settled till it has been paid to the last penny and
every claim of justice met. The murderer may cover his sin
and live the life of a model citizen for 10 years after his crime,
but when he is discovered, man's law condemns him to death.
Though he has murdered no one for 10 long years - it judges
him still a murderer.
To hide past sin, either thoughts, words or deeds, by what
seems to be an absolutely perfect life, still leaves us sinners in
the sight of Him to whom the past and the future are as open
as the present. According to God's standard of holiness, we all
have sinned, and we must bring that sin out in the open and
have it dealt with righteously.
We each need someone who can clear the books. The Bible
declares that Jesus Christ is the only one who could pay this
penalty. "We were reconciled to God by the death of His Son"
(Romans 5:10). Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ gave up His life in
32
place of ours that we might go free. Our past sins are paid
for, and God, against whom we have sinned, has given us
His receipt showing His satisfaction with the completed work
of Christ on the cross in that He raised Him from the dead.
Christ once crucified is now our living Saviour. He died to
save us from the penalty of sin and now He lives to deliver us
from the power of sin.
<i>HYMN:</i>
<i>I hear the Saviour say, "Thy strength indeed is small</i>
<i>Child of weakness look to me; Find in in me thine all in all."</i>
<i>Jesus paid it all; All to Him I owe;</i>
<i>Sin has left a crimson stain; He washed it white as snow.</i>
<i>-Evina M Hall</i>
Thought: "As in Adam all die...in Christ shall all be made alive."
Prayer: Thank You, Jesus, for conquering death that I might have
everlasting life.
33
16 A Perfect Sacrifice	
Perfect because God was in Christ
Why did Christ have to die? Could He not have saved us
without dying? Man had broken God's law and the penalty
was death. How could Christ righteously deliver us without
meeting our full penalty? Do you not see that if He paid
anything less than the full price there would still be judgement
for us to meet? But it is evident that because He died, the law
we had broken can judge us no more.
The Bible says in Romans 8:1, "There is therefore now no
condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus."
On one occasion an unfinished court case extended to a second
day. And, as is the usual practice, so that no outside influence
could be brought to bear on the jurymen, they were kept in
custody overnight. On entering the court the next morning,
the judge, addressing the jury, said, "Gentlemen, the case is
dismissed: the prisoner has been called to a higher court." The
accused had died in his cell during the night and there was no use
going on with the case, since the law cannot judge a dead man.
34
Again, if a man should murder one person he is put to death,
but if he should murder 6 people he is still just put to death,
because this is the utmost penalty of the law. No matter what
a man's sins may be, the law knows no greater penalty than
to take his life.
Therefore it matters not that there are sins in my life I have long
since forgotten. I fear none of them, for I have this confidence
that the Lord Jesus Christ, my Substitute, suffered the utmost
penalty of the law on my account, freeing me absolutely from
all its claims against me, both great and small.
Thought: Jesus paid it all.
Prayer: Lord, Thou hast died that I might live. Is any sacrifice too great
to make for Thee?
35
17 But Not All Are Saved	
All are invited but not all come
On the basis of the greatness of Jesus Christ's sacrifice, some
have suggested that if Christ died for all, we must all be saved.
But God does not say so. He says there is salvation for all, not
that all are saved.
Here is an illustration. It is a bitterly cold winter and
unemployment is rife in one of our great cities, with many
in dire need. The municipal authorities provide free meals.
You meet a poor fellow on the street who says he is starving.
Naturally you ask if he does not believe the notices that are
up all over the city, that there is enough food for all provided
free of charge.
"Yes," he replies. "I believe that is true in a general sort of way,
but I am still hungry."
You tell him that he is likely to remain hungry in spite of
the provisions unless he eats and drinks personally of what
is provided for all. In the same way, although the death of
36
Christ provides salvation for whosoever will, only those who
personally accept Christ and believe that He died in their
place are saved. I must take Christ as my Saviour, or His death
will avail me nothing - just as a man could die of thirst beside
a spring of water if he refused to make its life-giving stream
his own by drinking of it himself.
The Saviour's salvation offer is given to all: every one that
thirsteth can come! "Come unto me all ye that labour…"
Salvation is free, but not forced on any. But, the invitation
having been given, you must respond! Accept or reject, the
decision is yours! Come to the Saviour, make no delay!
Thought: Behold, now is the accepted time; behold now is the day of salvation!
Prayer: I accept You, Jesus, as my Lord and Saviour.
37
18 The Mystery of Cancelled Sin
Spiritual arithmetic is a mystery to the world
There are some people who still pose the question: How could
the Lord Jesus Christ's one life be considered the substitute for
the lives of so many, so that God offers salvation to whosoever
places their faith in Christ?
That seems a fair question - a problem in arithmetic that can be
demonstrated on paper. Christ was God manifest in the flesh -
Divinity in humanity - so that the life He gave was an infinite
life, which can meet the needs of any number of finite lives.
Get a sheet of paper and write down all the big figures you
can think of - millions or more - and add them up. Now that
you have a big number, multiply it by 10 or 100 - by a million
if you like. Fill up sheets of paper with repeated multiplication,
and after that you still have a finite number - a number that
has bounds set about it - a beginning and an end, however far
it may extend. No, by adding finite things together no man
has ever been able to make that which is infinite. The infinite
life of Christ given for sinners is more than sufficient to save
all who accept Him as the One who died for them.
38
But how could Christ suffer for my sins when they were
not committed till almost 2000 years after He died? At first
this seems a problem to a thoughtful person, but the more
thoughtful you are, the more readily you will see the solution.
God is omniscient (that is, He knows all things), and God is
eternal. In Exodus 3:14, God calls Himself "I AM" (present
tense), and Christ says in John 8:58 "Before Abraham was, I
AM" (present tense). In other words, to one who knows all
things and is eternal, there is, as it were, neither past nor
future, but one eternal present. Events to take place 2000 years
ahead must be as clear to Him as events which happened 2000
years ago, and both must of necessity be as clear to God as
events happening now.
Thought: "For God hath chosen us in Christ before the foundation of the
world" (Ephesians 1:4)
Prayer: I praise Thee, O God. For You are the omniscient and eternal God.
39
19 People Not Puppets	
In Adam all die; in Christ - all ALIVE!
But why did not God make man incapable of disobeying His
will and therefore incapable of sinning? Such a question is
like asking why does not God draw a crooked straight line
or a square round, or make an object black all over and white
all over at the same time. Man is a creature with power of
intelligent choice, so that the question really is: Why didn't
God make a creature with the power of intelligent choice and
yet without the power of intelligent choice at the same time?
If I had the power of hypnosis, I would be able to put my 2
sons into a hypnotic state, thus robbing them of the power
of intelligent choice. I could then say, "Sit on those chairs
till I return" - "Get up and eat" - "Stop eating" - "Kiss me
goodnight" - and unfeeling arms would go around my neck,
and unresponsive lips would be pressed to mine. I would
have prompt and perfect obedience to my every command,
but would I find satisfaction in it? No!
I want boys with free wills, who are capable of disobeying me,
40
but who willingly choose to carry out my instructions, which
are the outcome of my love for them and are given for their
own good. I cannot conceive of God, who put these desires
in my heart and yours, being satisfied with anything less
Himself.
God does not want puppets who jump in a given direction
according to the wire that is pulled, nor does He want robots
in the form of "men" who mechanically and absolutely obey
His will as do the planets that whirl through space. God can
find satisfaction in nothing less than the spontaneous love
of our hearts and our free-will decisions to act in ways that
please and honour Him. But it is obvious that this same
power of free action enables us to defy and dishonour Him
if we so choose.
Thought: To obey or not to obey? The choice is yours.
Prayer: Thank You, Lord, for giving me a will. Help me to choose to obey You.
41
20 Object of God's Love	
What is man, that Thou art mindful of him?
Man is truly a magnificent creature, far above the animal
creations around him. There is no "missing link". But a great
gulf is fixed between the highest beast and man, for God has
given man the awesome power of being able to say no to God
as well as an effective yes. In your own interests, may I ask
which are you saying to God now?
What does God care about this little world of ours compared
with the vastness of the mighty universe?
Think of our own solar system, with the planet Neptune 30
times as far away from the sun as Earth, so that it takes 164 of
our years to make 1 of Neptune's, and beyond this, suns with
planets revolving around them as our solar system revolves
around the sun! Of what importance can Earth be to God, and
of how much less importance can man be?
So said the astronomer as the faith of his youth fled - this
is what the telescope had done for him. The vastness of the
42
heavens had robbed him of faith in his mother's God, for how
could God trouble Himself with man, who is less than a grain
of sand in comparison?
But his thirst for knowledge would not let him rest. The
heavens were available for study only at night; how should
the free hours of the day be spent? Why not a microscope? And
lo! Worlds were opened at his feet - worlds as wonderful as
those above, and slowly his faith came back. Yes, the God who
could attend to such minute details as to make a drop of ditch
water throb with miniature life, was sure to be interested in
man, the highest form of His creation. The man found balance
instead of bias, and balance brought him back to God. John
3:16 was true after all.
Thought: We love Him, because He first loved us.
Prayer: Make me worthy of Your love, O God.
43
21 Faith's Firm Foundation	
Hold fast the profession of your faith
Is faith logical? Yes, it is logical. It is a mistake to think that
faith is opposed to reason. Faith and reason go hand in hand,
but faith goes on when reason can go no further. Reason, to a
great extent, is dependent on faith, for without knowledge it is
impossible to reason, and knowledge is very largely a matter
of faith in human testimony. For instance, I believe strychnine
administered in a large enough dose will poison a human
being, but I have never seen the experiment performed. Yet I
have such faith in the written testimony of men that I would
not take a large dose of strychnine for anything.
If you check up carefully, you will find that most of the things
you know are a matter of faith in human testimony, written
or spoken, for you have not verified them for yourself. Then,
having accepted the testimony of men on other matters, will
you not accept the testimony of thousands of Christians when
they affirm that they have verified the things written in God's
Word and have proved them to be true?
44
Men will not believe, not for lack of convincing evidence of
God's power, but because of the hardness of their hearts. Recall
the stubbornness of Pharaoh in Exodus. The mighty acts of God
wrought by the hand of Moses merely hardened his resistance in
unbelief. More astonishing and lamentable was the unbelief of
the children of Israel in the wilderness. Not even the parting of
the Red Sea and the destruction of Pharaoh's army - still fresh in
their minds - could stop their rebellion against God and Moses.
Our faith is not founded in supposition or speculation, but
on the words and works of the ever-living Christ, who reigns
on high and will soon return to judge the unbelieving world.
Hold fast, therefore, the profession of your faith without
wavering, till He comes!
Thought: Faith means simply believing God.
Prayer: May my unbelief be removed and replaced by faith in the one,
true, living God.
45
22 The Wages of Sin is Death	
Sin is a merciless master
Why should God judge my sins as worthy of death? It is
because of His infinite holiness that no sin could exist in
His presence. In some primitive cultures, a native chief may
club his wife to death on slight provocation, without falling
in the smallest degree in the estimation of his people. The
same act in our land would have to be paid for by the life of
the murderer. The act is the same in both lands, but in one
instance there is no judgement; in the other, quick retribution.
The difference is simply the result of our enlightenment. If a
sin, which in a primitive culture is considered nothing, would
cause a man to lose his life in our land, think, if you can, what
some other sin, which appears to us as nothing, must look
like to an infinitely holy God - "For God is light, and in Him
is no darkness at all" (1 John 1:5).
It may be just, but is it merciful of God to refuse to take us
all to heaven even if we reject Christ as our sin-bearer? Yes,
both just and merciful. Would it be kindness to transfer a poor
ragged beggar into the glare of a beautiful ballroom? Would
46
he not be more conscious of his rags and dirt? Would he not
do his best to escape to the darkness of the street? He would
be infinitely happier there. Would it be kindness and mercy
on God's part to bring a man in his sins into the holy light
of Heaven if that man had rejected God's offer of the only
cleansing power there is? If you and I would not wish our
friends to see inside our minds now and read all the thoughts
that had ever been there (and our friends' standards are
perhaps not any higher than our own), what would it be like
to stand before God, whose absolute holiness would reveal
our sin in all its awfulness?
Thought: "It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God"
(Hebrews 10:31). "For our God is a consuming fire" (Hebrews 12:29).
Prayer: Thank You, Father, for Your justice and mercy.
47
23 Hell Has No Exit	
But no one need go to hell!
Revelation 6:16 tells us of the feelings of those who refuse to
accept Jesus Christ as their Saviour and persist in going to
eternity in their sins. They would call to the mountains and
the rocks to fall on them, and hide them "from the face of Him
that sitteth on the throne". Yet, it is the presence of this same
Christ that will make Heaven for those who have accepted
Him as Saviour and Lord.
You see the absurdity of talking about God taking us all to
heaven - heaven is a condition as well as a place. The presence
of the Lord Jesus Christ will constitute heaven to those who
are cleansed from their sins, while that same presence would
make a hell of remorse in the hearts of any who, still in their
sins, should stand in the infinite light of His holiness. Let us be
quite reasonable - could you really be happy in the presence
of One whose love you had rejected, and whose great sacrifice
you had not counted worthy of your acceptance?
Hell is a place of no return, no exit. Those who enter are there
48
to stay. The road that leads to hell is a one-way street. At the
entrance to this street is a warning sign: Flee from the wrath of
God into the arms of His Son. He that hath the Son hath life! O
why will ye die? Let this sign speak to you today.
God sends none to hell but those who spurn His Son. These
have none to blame but themselves. John Calvin says, "The
wicked have the seeds of hell sown in their own hearts." And
who are these? These are the abominable, and murderers, and
whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idol worshippers, and all
liars… these shall have their part in the lake which burneth
with fire and brimstone (Rev 21:8).
Thought: Come to the Saviour, make no delay!
Prayer; Yes, Jesus, I come to You, my Lord and my Saviour.
49
24 Christ our Substitute	
Christ our passover is sacrificed
We have considered reasonable evidence that God does exist
and that He has revealed in the Bible His holy claims on men
and women. We have shown that "all have sinned and fall
short of the glory of God" (Romans 3:23). We have been faced
with Jesus Christ, God's Son, who came to this earth to die for
the sin of man. We have also considered numerous objections
raised by people who have other ideas about God's plan of
salvation. Now we are going to think through the wisdom
and the wonder of God's plan of salvation for sinful people.
In a word, it is salvation by substitution.
God's love would have forgiven the sinner, but God's
righteousness prevented the forgiveness. God's righteousness
would have judged the sinner, but God's love restrained the
judgement. How to reconcile His inherent righteousness with
His character of essential love was a problem that no human
philosopher could have solved, but divine wisdom and mercy
find their highest expression in the solution - the vicarious
suffering and death of God the Son.
50
"But", one may object, "does not Christianity fail at its very
foundation by basing everything on substitution? Substitution
will not stand thoughtful investigation. It makes Christ, the
Innocent, bear the penalty for the guilty and thus lets the
guilty go free. It is diametrically opposed to our every idea of
justice, for we believe that justice should protect the innocent
and bring the full penalty upon the guilty."
At the first Passover in Egypt, the blood of the lamb saved
each Israelite household from God's angel of death. Isaac's
life was spared by a ram. We who believe are saved by our
sinless Substitute, the Lamb of God. God's way is: salvation
by substitution.
Thought: The Son of God loved me and gave Himself for me.
Prayer: May I always be grateful for Your salvation by substitution, O Lord.
51
25 The Cross Our Glory	
In the cross, in the cross, be my glory ever!
See God's perfect justice and perfect mercy revealed at the
cross. He does not take the innocent and compel him to bear
the penalty of the guilty. God acts like the judge in this story: It
is on record that of two young men who studied law together,
one rose to a seat on the bench, while the other took to drink
and wasted his life. On one occasion this poor fellow was
brought before his old companion, charged with a crime, and
the lawyers present wondered what kind of justice would be
administered by the judge under such trying circumstances.
To their surprise, he sentenced his one-time companion to the
heaviest penalty the law allowed, then paid the fine himself
and set his old friend free.
God, against whom we have sinned, in justice sat upon His
judgement throne and passed the heaviest penalty He could
- the sentence of death upon the sinner. Then, in mercy, He
stepped from His throne and in the person of His Son took
the sinner's place, bearing the full penalty Himself, for 2
Corinthians 5:19 tells us that "God was in Christ" - not through
52
Christ but in Christ - "reconciling the world unto Himself".
Paul's one unchanging message was "Jesus Christ and
Him crucified." By this, perishing souls are brought to life
everlasting. The perishing world today rejects or perverts the
message of the cross. To them, it is foolishness. To us who are
saved, it is the power of God. Men of the world are blinded by
pride, so they despise the crucified Saviour.
But the great English hymn writer, Isaac Watts, expresses the
message of the cross thus:
<i>When I survey the wondrous cross</i>
<i>On which the Prince of Glory died,</i>
<i>My richest gain I count but loss,</i>
<i>And pour contempt on all my pride.</i>
Thought: The cross is the way to life for the repentant ones.
Prayer: Jesus, keep me near Your cross!
53
26 No Fairer Offer	
Whosoever will, may come!
God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are one
God. The same God against whom we had sinned passed the
judgement, paid the penalty, and now offers us full and free
pardon, based upon absolute righteousness. That is why the
apostle, Paul, writes in Romans 1:16-17 "I am not ashamed of
the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation
to everyone that believeth… for therein is the righteousness of
God revealed." I, too, can say I am not ashamed of the Gospel of
Christ, for no man can honestly find a flaw in the righteousness
offered by God to man. That is the righteousness you may
possess now, at this very moment, if you will accept it.
But is the acceptance of Christ as my Saviour all that is
necessary to save me for all eternity? Yes. I admit the very
simplicity of it seems to make it hard to grasp. But if I owe
$500 and have nothing with which to pay, and a friend pays
the debt for me and gives me the receipt, I don't worry about it
anymore. I can look my creditor straight in the face, for I hold
his signed receipt. Likewise, Jesus Christ gave His life in place
54
of mine, He said, "It is finished," meaning that the work of
atonement was completed, and God gave me His receipt. The
assurance that He was satisfied with Christ's finished work is
that He (God) raised Christ from the dead on the third day.
Our Lord Jesus told this parable (Matt 22:1-14): Salvation is
like a wedding feast to which many of the King's subjects
are invited. The King not only provides the banquet, but
also a wedding garment for each guest, free-of-charge. Only
genuine guests are given the garments. At the banquet, one
man sneaks in without the garment. This quickly identified
him as an imposter and intruder and he is instantly ejected
into outer darkness.
Thought: Have I received my garment of righteousness?
Prayer: Jesus, thank You for paying for my garment of righteousness
with Your life.
55
27 It is Finished	
Man cannot improve on God's work
When you receive from Christ His righteousness, like a wedding
garment, it is perfect and complete. You cannot add to it your
own righteousness which is as filthy rags.
"But I can't see it," said a certain cabinet-maker, as a friend tried
to explain this to him. At last, an idea came to his friend, who,
lifting a plane, made as though he would plane the top of a
beautifully polished table that stood nearby.
"Stop!" cried the cabinet-maker. "Don't you see that's finished?
You'll simply ruin it if you use that plane on it!"
"Why," replied his friend ,"that's just what I have been trying
to show you about Christ's work of redemption. It was finished
when He gave His life for you, and if you try to add to that
finished work you can only spoil it. Just accept it as it stands
- His life for yours, and you go free. Like a flash the cabinetmaker
saw it and received Jesus Christ into his life as his Lord and Saviour.
56
"For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of
yourselves: it is the gift of God: not of works… " (Ephesians
2:8-9). Salvation is all of God, and all of grace. We come simply
with empty hands to receive. We cannot do anything to add
to what our Lord has done, or to improve it. He has done it
perfectly: it is finished!
Does this mean that after we are saved we are to do nothing?
By no means! From henceforth, we are to live for Him who died
for us; to live in newness of life, and to live for God's glory. His
work is finished, ours has just begun!
Thought: "It is finished" means "It is finished."
Prayer: Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to Thee.
57
28 The Real Difference	
Alive or dead? You are one or the other, not both
"But," says someone, "there is one more problem that puzzles me.
I know a polished gentleman who is not a Christian and states
so quite definitely, and I know a rather crude and uncultured
man who is a Christian and who shows his genuine belief in
many ways. Do you mean to tell me God prefers the uncultured
man simply because he had accepted and acknowledged Christ
as his Saviour?"
This question arises from a confusion of ideas. A Christian is
not different in degree from a non-Christian; he is different in
kind, just as the difference between a diamond and a cabbage
is not one of degree, but of kind. The one is polished, and the
other is crude, but the one is dead while the other is alive.
Therefore the one has what the other does not have, and that is
life. And such is the difference God sees between a Christian
and non-Christian.
Here is one of the many such statements He makes in His Word.
1 John 5:11-12: "And this is the record, that God hath given to
58
us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son
hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life."
So that the vital and all-important question for everyone of us
becomes not, am I cultured or uncouth, but, am I alive or dead
towards God? Have I received God's risen Son who brings me
life from above, the life of God, called in the Bible eternal life?
Or have I not received Him and am I therefore classed by God
as among those who "hath not life"?
By our first birth, we received physical life from our earthly
parents. This equips us for life on earth. After that, what? Jesus
says to us, "He that believeth on me hath everlasting life." It is
the Spirit of God that gives you this life. It equips you for life
in God's everlasting kingdom. Do you have this new life? If no,
you are as good as dead! Come, then, and receive life in Jesus,
eternal life!
Thought: The second birth gives real life, eternal life.
Prayer: Lord, I want to live with Thee in Thy kingdom.
59
29 A Matter of the Heart	
"My son, give me your heart"
But how may I receive the Lord Jesus Christ as my Saviour?
According to Ephesians 2:1, I am "dead in trespasses and sins".
If I believe Jesus Christ gave His life in place of mine, and that
now by the receiving of Him as my Saviour I may have eternal
salvation, will perceiving these facts in a cold mechanical way
give me everlasting life? Most certainly not!
A wealthy man loses all his money, and rather than sacrifice
his social position, he agrees to give the hand of his daughter
to a rich man whom she despises. At first she refuses pointblank,
but when her father shows her the expediency of the
marriage, that it is his only hope of being saved from utter
want, she consents, goes through the marriage ceremony, and
becomes, according to the law of the land, the rich man's wife.
But is her heart really his? Surely not!
You see it now, don't you? When a man and a woman would
be truly one, they must love with such a love as to receive each
other into the innermost recesses of their hearts in such a deep
60
way that they cannot fully express in words all that they feel.
We all have the innermost recess of our beings, which is sacred to
us, where emotions stir that no one else could possibly understand.
Jesus Christ, God's Son, because of His love for us, claims the right
to enter there. He will take no other place in our lives. The love
He had shown for us entitles Him to that place. Will I withhold it?
When I think that Christ's love for me was so great that He left
His Father's glory and came to earth, becoming truly human
that he might suffer and die in my place and give me eternal
life, my heart softens towards Him.
If I were to lay sick and helpless in a burning building, a friend
had rushed in to save me, and wrapping the blankets about
me that I might receive no harm, had himself been critically
scarred and burned about the face and arms, would not my
heart go out to him? God knows it would!
Thought: Who reigns within my heart?
Prayer: May my heart be softened and made receptive to Your love to me,
O God!
61
30 Amazing Love	
God is love
Now I am face to face with my Saviour. I see Him suffering in
the Garden of Gethsemane in anticipation of His death on the
cross for me. I see Him in Pilate's Judgement Hall; the soldiers
have been striking Him in the face, saying "Prophesy! Who
smote thee?" I see them crowning Him with a crown of thorns.
They have taken Him bleeding and bruised from judgement to
Calvary, where they are driving spikes through His hands and
His feet. As He is then lifted up to die between two thieves, the
people gather around to mock and revile Him, though He is
pouring out His life to redeem them. Then I begin to understand
what self-sacrificing love really means as I hear Him cry, "Father,
forgive them; for they know not what they do."
But even if we could enter sympathetically into the physical
sufferings of Christ until tears streamed down our cheeks,
and that was all, we would still have failed miserably to
comprehend the true significance of the cross.
We read in 2 Corinthians 5:21 that "He (God) hath made Him
62
(Christ) to be sin for us, who knew no sin." Come with me, I
plead with you, with bowed head and humbled heart, and let
us, if we may, enter into the soul-sufferings of Christ the Son,
and of God the Father, as that Holy One, who loathed sin as
we would loathe leprosy, is "made to be sin for us."
Ponder in your heart God's amazing love outpoured for rebels
such as you and me. Recall the words of Isaac Watts:
<i>See, from His head, His hands, His feet,</i>
<i>Sorrow and love flow mingled down!</i>
<i>Did e'er such love and sorrow meet,</i>
<i>Or thorns compose so rich a crown?</i>
Thought: Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all!
Prayer: I come to You, O Lord, the Saviour of my soul. Thank You for
Your great love for me.
63
31 He was Made Sin for Us	
Jesus died for me
If the higher the development of the physical organism, the
greater the capacity for pain, then the higher the development of
the moral character, the greater the capacity for soul-suffering.
Have you ever heard of a venerable old gentleman, justly
proud of his honoured name - a man who would sooner lose
his right hand than use it to do a dishonourable deed? His son
and heir go astray from the paths of virtue and in a drunken
brawl murders someone. And the old man walks no more
erect, his head is bowed in shame, and soon his soul-suffering
brings his grey hairs in sorrow to the grave.
If that be possible (and it is possible even for us to feel the
disgrace of a greater sin than we are used to), think what sin
must be like in all its awfulness to an absolutely holy God!
Now we understand why, in the Garden of Gethsemane, Christ
turns in loathing from sin and cries in agony of soul, "O my
Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless
not as I will, but as thou wilt" (Matthew 26:39). Yet in spite
64
of that agonised plea from Gethsemane, "God so loved the
world that He gave His only begotten Son" to be "made sin"
for us - "that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish,
but have everlasting life" (John 3:16; 2 Corinthians 5:21).
Herein is the mystery of redemption, that God the Father made
His only begotten Son "to be sin for us, who (Jesus Christ)
knew no sin; that we might be made the righteousness of God
in Him." Look then to the Saviour bearing your sins on the
cross, and in faith receive His perfect righteousness. "Nothing
in my hands I bring. Simply to Thy cross I cling."
Thought: Jesus loves me with His life, not just with words.
Prayer: Thank You, Lord, for Your garment of righteousness.
65
32 Receiving Christ the Lord	
There's not a Friend like the lowly Jesus!
Prayer: "O God, I cannot understand the mystery of it all. I
cannot understand why You cared enough for me to send Jesus
Christ to bear the penalty of my sins. But with all my lack of
understanding, I am willing, and I do yield to You, absolutely.
I trust in the fact of His death for me, and the promise that
You have made in John 3;16, that whosoever believeth in Him
should not perish, but have everlasting life."
Just as you leave the mystery of the electric current with the
engineer and take the benefits of the light for yourself, so
leave the mystery of salvation with God and take the infinite
benefits of salvation with God and take the infinite benefits of
a personal Saviour to yourself. Yield to Him now - He wants
to come into your life. Say and mean it: "I am Yours, Lord
Jesus; yielded to You, body, soul and spirit and You are mine."
Then seal it by signing the declaration below.
My Declaration
Before God, who knows the innermost secrets of my heart, I
66
accept Jesus Christ into my life as my Saviour and Lord. I yield
absolutely to Him, and Him alone. I know, on the authority of
his own written Word in John 5:24, that I have everlasting life,
for there he says, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth
my word and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting
life, and shall not come into condemnation (judgment); but is
passed from death unto life."
In coming into God's family, I shall endeavour my utmost as a
filial child, to read and meditate on God's Word daily, and to
speak to my Heavenly Father in daily communion. This is my
sincere desire, so help me God.
<i>Signed ____________________</i>
<i>Date   ____________________</i>
Thought: "Whosoever believeth on Him shall not be ashamed."
Prayer: Thank You, Lord Jesus, for saving my soul.
67
33 A Soldier Led to the Cross	
Believing on the Lord Jesus Christ, he is saved!
I was seeking to lead a young soldier to accept the Lord Jesus
Christ, but, like most men, he tried to evade the essential issue
with the promise "I'll think it over."
"Harry," I said, "let me illustrate. You are out with the boys
some night scouting an enemy post. And on the way back you
get hit hard. Another soldier stops long enough to pick you up
and carry you back to your own lines, and for his trouble gets
2 bullets in the back. You are both taken to the hospital and by
tender care are won back from the very jaws of death.
Two months later the doctor brings in a poor fellow who
limps badly and moves with evident pain. They stop at your
bedside, and the doctor says, `Harry, I want to introduce you
to Bill Smith, the man who risked his life to save you.' You
fold your arms and say, ` I'm not sure I want to meet him. I'll
think it over.' Now, you wouldn't say that, would you? You
would grasp him by the hand and try to tell him something of
the gratitude you feel.
68
I want to introduce you to the Lord Jesus Christ, the Man who
not only risked His life, but sacrificed it, to save you. And you
propose to turn your back on Him and say you'll think it over?"
"No," he said, "I'll accept Him." Together we knelt while he
told the Lord that he, with his whole heart, accepted Him as
his personal Saviour.
Reader, are you also "thinking it over"? Putting off this vital
issue may mean shutting yourself out forever from the super
abundance of God's salvation grace. Do not put off to a "more
convenient day" what you can, and should, do today. For we
"know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life?
It is even a vapour, that appeareth for a little time, and then
vanisheth away" (James 4:14).
Thought: Come to Jesus today!
Prayer: Help my unbelief, O God. Let me come to You in repentance of
my sins, to receive salvation.
69
34 Go and Tell	
"Ye shall be My witnesses"
Now for the last point, a most important one. If you open your
Bible to Romans 10:9-11, you will read; "That if thou shalt
confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in
thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt
be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness;
and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For
the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be
ashamed."
You say you have accepted Christ. Go and tell someone! Do
not be ashamed to confess Him. Why should you be? Suppose
I had fallen off the wharf, injuring myself so that I could not
swim, and a labourer working on a coal barge had plunged
in and saved me. If a month later, you saw me walking down
Main Street and the same labourer, all begrimed with coal
dust, coming up from the opposite direction, and you saw
that I noticed him first and deliberately turned to look into a
store window so that I would not have to stop and greet him,
what would you think of me?
70
You have declared that you believe the Lord Jesus Christ has
given His life to save you. Occasions will arise when you will
meet Him face to face in the presence of those who despise
Him. Will you be ashamed and look the other way, or will
you honour Him in both word and deed as your Lord and
Saviour? Having really accepted Him, you must, and you will,
acknowledge Him before others.
Telling others about the Saviour is one way of showing your
gratitude!
<i>"The Lord is good: tell it wherever you go,</i>
<i>The Lord is good: tell it that others may know;</i>
<i>Tell of His blessings and tell of His love,</i>
<i>Tell how He's coming from heaven above;</i>
<i>The Lord is good: tell it wherever you go!"</i>
<i>- Al Smith</i>
Thought: I must be His witness.
Prayer: Open my lips, O Lord, that I may share with others the Saviour
who saved me from death.
71